h1. Random.org Gem

_Random integers, strings, sequences, quota check._

This software based on Random.Org by Mike Green


h2. Summary

The Random.org Gem is a module that contains: 
@RandomOrg::Integer@, @RandomOrg::String@, @RandomOrg::Sequence@, @RandomOrg::Quota@, which is an interface to Random.org's "random generator":http://www.random.org.
Obviously, the Random.org Gem requires an active internet connection to work.

h2. Usage

Usage is simple:

<pre>
	require 'random_org'
		
	#Integers
	
	int = RandomOrg::Integer.new(0, 100)
	puts int.value 
	#Generate array with one element: random decimal integer in the range 1..100
	#Defaults: base = 10, nums = 1
	
	int = RandomOrg::Integer.new(0, 32, 16, 200)
	puts int.value 
	#Generate array with 200 elements: random string hexadecimal in the range 1..32
		
	#Strings
	
	str = RandomOrg::String.new(10)
	puts str.value
	#Generate array with one string length 10 symbols containing digits, uppercase and lowercase, not necessarily unique.
	#Defaults: num = 1, dig = true, upper = true, lower = true, uniq = false
	
	str = RandomOrg::String.new(12, 3, false, true, false, true)
	puts str.value
	#Generate array with 3 string length 12 symbols containing only lowercase, totally unique.
		
	#Sequences
	
	seq = RandomOrg::String.new()
	puts seq.value
	#Generate array with 100 integers at random from 1 to 100
	#Defaults: min = 1, max = 100
		
	#Quota check
	
	quo = RandomOrg::Quota(new)
	puts quo.value
	#No parameters, return only integer with current quota.
</pre>

h2. Dependencies

* Ruby Standard Library _(that's it)_

h2. About "Random.org":http://random.org

_From their website:_

*RANDOM.ORG* offers true random numbers to anyone on the Internet. The randomness comes from atmospheric noise, which for many purposes is better than the pseudo-random number algorithms typically used in computer programs. People use RANDOM.ORG for holding draws, lotteries and sweepstakes, to drive games and gambling sites, for scientific applications and for art and music. The service has existed since 1998 and was built and is being operated by Mads Haahr of the School of Computer Science and Statistics at Trinity College, Dublin in Ireland.


h2. COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2011 Deah D Flaw. See LICENSE for details.